README.md, before:

# Start Learning TailwindCSS

If you are one of the developers I'm mentoring, you should be reading all of this. If I've included it in here, there's a reason for it.

## What is TailwindCSS?

TailwindCSS is a utility-first CSS framework designed for rapid web development. Unlike traditional frameworks (such as Bootstrap) which provide ready-made components, Tailwind offers utility classes that you apply directly in your HTML, allowing for custom designs without writing extensive CSS.

### Key Benefits

- Speed: Enables quick prototyping by adding styling directly in HTML.
- Consistency: Ensures design consistency with a predefined set of utilities.
- Customizable: Highly adaptable through a configuration file for defining your design system.
- Responsive Design: Simplifies creating responsive layouts with mobile-first utility classes.

### How It Works

TailwindCSS uses utility classes for styling, such as `text-center` for centering text, `bg-blue-500` for a blue background, and `p-4` for padding. You integrate Tailwind into your project, use these classes in your markup, and Tailwind generates a CSS file with only the utilities you've used, keeping the file size minimal.

---

## Setup Prerequisites

Before you begin, ensure you have Node.js installed on your system. You can download it from [Node.js official website](https://nodejs.org/).

## Step 1: Initialize Your Project

First, you need to create a `package.json` file for your project. You can do this by running the following command in your project directory:

```bash
npm init -y
```

This command creates a `package.json` file with default values.

## Step 2: Install TailwindCSS

Next, install the TailwindCSS package:

```bash
npm install -D tailwindcss
```

## Step 3: Create Configuration Files

After installing the necessary packages, generate the `tailwind.config.js` file by running:

```bash
npx tailwindcss init
```

This command creates a `tailwind.config.js` file for the TailwindCSS configuration.

## Step 4: Set Up Your CSS File

Create a `styles.css` file in your project directory. Then, add the following Tailwind directives to the top of your `styles.css` file:

```css
@tailwind base;
@tailwind components;
@tailwind utilities;
```

These directives are necessary for including Tailwind's styles in your project.

## Step 5: Configure Your Build Script

In your `package.json` file, configure a build script like the one below.

```json
"scripts": {
  "build": "tailwindcss -i styles.css -o output.css"
}
```

This script takes your `styles.css` file, processes it, and outputs the result to `output.css`.

## Step 6: Create Your HTML File

Create an `index.html` file in your project directory. Link to the processed CSS file (`output.css`) in the `<head>` section of your HTML:

```html
<link href="output.css" rel="stylesheet">
```

## Step 7: Build Your CSS

Finally, run the build script to process your CSS file:

```bash
npm run build
```

After running this command, you'll have an `output.css` file that includes all the TailwindCSS styles you need. Be sure to import it as a stylesheet in the `index.html` file.

## Conclusion

You've successfully set up TailwindCSS for your base HTML/CSS/JS website. You can now begin using TailwindCSS classes in your `index.html` file to style your website.


## Official Documentation

Next, you should check out the [official TailwindCSS documentation](https://tailwindcss.com/docs) to learn more about using TailwindCSS.

You can find the official TailwindCSS installation instructions here - [TailwindCSS Install Docs](https://tailwindcss.com/docs/installation)

You can play around with TailwindCSS in the browser using this link here - [TailwindCSS Playground](https://play.tailwindcss.com)

Commit message:

Removed src/styles.css to make it clearer that this is a file that must be generated and edited README.md

README.md, after:

# Start Learning TailwindCSS

If you are one of the developers I'm mentoring, you should be reading all of this. If I've included it in here, there's a reason for it.

**Before opening the `src/index.html` file in your browser, you need to enter the following commands in your terminal to set everything up:**

```bash
npm install
npm run build-css
```

## What is TailwindCSS?

TailwindCSS is a utility-first CSS framework designed for rapid web development. Unlike traditional frameworks (such as Bootstrap) which provide ready-made components, Tailwind offers utility classes that you apply directly in your HTML, allowing for custom designs without writing extensive CSS.

### Key Benefits

- Speed: Enables quick prototyping by adding styling directly in HTML.
- Consistency: Ensures design consistency with a predefined set of utilities.
- Customizable: Highly adaptable through a configuration file for defining your design system.
- Responsive Design: Simplifies creating responsive layouts with mobile-first utility classes.

### How It Works

TailwindCSS uses utility classes for styling, such as `text-center` for centering text, `bg-blue-500` for a blue background, and `p-4` for padding. You integrate Tailwind into your project, use these classes in your markup, and Tailwind generates a CSS file with only the utilities you've used, keeping the file size minimal.

---

## Setup Prerequisites

Before you begin, ensure you have Node.js installed on your system. You can download it from [Node.js official website](https://nodejs.org/).

## Step 1: Initialize Your Project

First, you need to create a `package.json` file for your project. You can do this by running the following command in your project directory:

```bash
npm init -y
```

This command creates a `package.json` file with default values.

## Step 2: Install TailwindCSS

Next, install the TailwindCSS package:

```bash
npm install -D tailwindcss
```

## Step 3: Create Configuration Files

After installing the necessary packages, generate the `tailwind.config.js` file by running:

```bash
npx tailwindcss init
```

This command creates a `tailwind.config.js` file for the TailwindCSS configuration.

## Step 4: Set Up Your CSS File

Create a `styles.css` file in your project directory. Then, add the following Tailwind directives to the top of your `styles.css` file:

```css
@tailwind base;
@tailwind components;
@tailwind utilities;
```

These directives are necessary for including Tailwind's styles in your project.

## Step 5: Configure Your Build Script

In your `package.json` file, configure a build script like the one below.

```json
"scripts": {
  "build": "tailwindcss -i styles.css -o output.css"
}
```

This script takes your `styles.css` file, processes it, and outputs the result to `output.css`.

## Step 6: Create Your HTML File

Create an `index.html` file in your project directory. Link to the processed CSS file (`output.css`) in the `<head>` section of your HTML:

```html
<link href="output.css" rel="stylesheet">
```

## Step 7: Build Your CSS

Finally, run the build script to process your CSS file:

```bash
npm run build
```

After running this command, you'll have an `output.css` file that includes all the TailwindCSS styles you need. Be sure to import it as a stylesheet in the `index.html` file.

## Conclusion

You've successfully set up TailwindCSS for your base HTML/CSS/JS website. You can now begin using TailwindCSS classes in your `index.html` file to style your website.


## Official Documentation

Next, you should check out the [official TailwindCSS documentation](https://tailwindcss.com/docs) to learn more about using TailwindCSS.

You can find the official TailwindCSS installation instructions here - [TailwindCSS Install Docs](https://tailwindcss.com/docs/installation)

You can play around with TailwindCSS in the browser using this link here - [TailwindCSS Playground](https://play.tailwindcss.com)
